The U.S.
says it still knows nothing
about the condition of the Americans
believed to be taken hostage by Hamas.
And while their whereabouts
remain unknown,
some do believe that they could be held in
Gaza's tunnels.
My next guest
has actually walked through those tunnels.
I want to bring in veteran foreign affairs
correspondent Reena nine and Reena.
These tunnels are kind
of a bit of a source of some mystery,
but they are believed
to be just literally
under the feet of the Palestinian people,
as you can kind of see here,
under buildings, under apartment.
We also have some somewhat rare video.
This is from 2017.
Can you walk us through what we are
looking at here, what you've been to to
You know, I have to tell you,
these tunnels are far more elaborate
than the ones I went down.
The ones I went down
were built by teenage boys
that essentially were made of dirt
and are probably one time usage
but you could see
the potential of hostages
being in these tunnels
fortified here with concrete.
What's also so
troubling is as incredible as Israeli anti
detection systems are for these tunnels,
which they do have, it's really hard.
Hamas has gotten smarter over the years
about their ability to get in
and destroy these tunnels.
So you see how fortified it
is, the concrete,
the fact that they can go down into here
and go undetected.
I'm going to show a few more pictures
here.
And you see the dirt around here, the ones
I went through were essentially I'm 54.
I was able to go down
the whole entire route of these tunnels
and then it slowly started to cave down.
These are far better
engineered and constructed
because the tunnels are likely.
These hostages are,
I bet, are potentially the ones that have
are not intended for one time use
their intended for this type of warfare.
Meanwhile, the other story here
is about the civilians.
They are now being asked to evacuate.
We're looking here at this evacuation
not there's really only one place
for them to get out.
And it would be right here.
This is the Rafah crossing
that leads straight to Egypt.
I'm going to show
another kind of image here.
This is what it looks like up close.
What are the challenges here for civilians
trying to get out?
Well, one, it's incredibly unpredictable
and incredibly dangerous.
We know that there have been
Israeli airstrikes and so you constantly
don't know what could happen in this area.
State Department
has also said that if and when the Rafah
crossing eventually opens,
what could happen is it won't be open
for a long, extended period of time.
It'll open quickly
and could potentially close.
You've got all these people
here in the Gaza Strip looking to get out.
That's the one exit point right now
is this Rafah, which enters into Egypt's
Sinai Peninsula there.
So you've got the unpredictability
it's dangerous.
And also, Abbi, the fact that we've heard
that we don't know how long it could be.
And of course,
this is a very significant distance here.
It's a small it's a small space.
But it's a significant distance
if you don't have a lot of means.
If you don't have a lot of means,
and also you don't know how long
you're camping out there for.
So the fact that these people could be
down there trying to get humanitarian aid,
the Egyptians also don't want over
a million people absorbed into Egypt.
So that's a big concern.
While they said they'll allow
multinational people come into Egypt,
leave via Cairo, these Palestinians
coming through don't have that option.
All right. Rana, and thank you so much.